I'm Tilly Smith and I'm co-owner of this
lovely herd of reindeer here in the
Cairngorms I've been with the reindeer
now for 38 years which is quite a long
time so I've got a love for reindeer and
I've seen many reindeer come and go over
my time
[Music]
so the reindeer here today are part of a
Kangol national park it's a large area
which takes in the Massif of the
Cairngorms as well as actually the
outlying towns and villages like
aviemore which we see down there
the reindeer actually came here long
before the National Park did the
National Park has been established for
20 years and he was actually a Swedish
man a swedish reindeer herder who
recognized these mountains is really
similar to his homeland in Swedish
Lapland and he begged the question why
are there no reindeer here and so in
1952 himself Mikael at sea and his wife
dr. Ingrid brought the embryonic heard
that is now what we have here today and
I have been lucky enough to be involved
in this herd since 1981
[Music]
reindeer are an Arctic animal they live
in the Arctic and subarctic of the
northern hemisphere and so they need to
be really well adapted for the cold if
you just touch their coat they're so
soft I describe it as a high quality
carpet and they're in summer coats at
the moment
but in winter coat it is so well
insulating that they don't even melt the
snow they live so it's all about keeping
warm not only do they have a lovely
thick coat but their coat actually
starts at the tips of their noses so
they've actually got hairy noses and
that hair goes right across the body and
even to the underside of their feet so
there is no baldness on a reindeer
anywhere another way of keeping warm
they've got very large flat feet and
these feet are obviously for walking on
snow for digging through the snow they
don't sink through the snow but also
actually for walking on boggy wet ground
and I suppose the final feature that
everybody sort of is intrigued in with
reindeer is their antlers and here today
as we look across the herd everybody
virtually has got a set of antlers and
that's because in reindeer not only do
the male's grow antlers but the females
Browns as well so standing next to me
here is Crowley he's a male reindeer and
he has grown these antlers since around
about march/april this year covered in
velvet while they're growing
[Music]
on a sort of international scale we have
reindeer and we have caribou they are
the same animal that the caribou live in
North America and the reindeer live in
Russia Scandinavia and basically the old
world many many reindeer been
domesticated in the old world by people
and these are part of those that
domesticated herd and between
domesticated reindeer in the old world
and caribou in the new world America
North Canada
there's about five million reindeer they
occupy a huge area of the northern
hemisphere right across the globe there
are areas where global warming and
climate change is having an effect for
example they had a case in the small
part over last winter where the snow
began to melt then it froze and then
snow fell again and when that happens
that is starvation conditions because
they can dig through the soft snow but
they can't break the ice and so they had
quite a high mortality rate rating there
are also other issues not just climate
change there's mining there's logging
this fuel extraction there's gas
extraction and these are all
infrastructures that disturbing there
and certainly the woodland populations
of ranging caribou are on the decline
but as an animal as a species
numbers-wise
they're certainly not
you